# 🥷 **Assignment 2-2**

>Source file: `src/TTT/A2.hs`

* **Q#08**:
  * Write a function `isMoveInBounds` that takes a `Move` as an input. It should return a boolean value indicating whether the `Move`'s coordinates fall within the dimensions of the game board.
  * Destructure the `Move` value in the assignment side of the function to access the row and column indices.
  * Create a list of boolean expressions that test whether both indices have values between `0` and the value of `_SIZE_`.
  * Use the appropriate built-in function to produce a single boolean value from this list of booleans, indicating whether all of them are true.
 * Test `isMoveInBounds` in a GHCi REPL session:
  ```shell
  $ cabal repl

  Main> :l TTT.A2

  TTT.A2> isMoveInBounds (0, 0)
  True
  TTT.A2> isMoveInBounds (2, 2)
  True
  TTT.A2> isMoveInBounds (3, 3)
  False
  TTT.A2> isMoveInBounds (-1, -1)
  False
  ```

* **Q#09**:
  * Write a function `stringToMove` that takes a move in string format (i.e. `"B1"`) and returns a corresponding `Move` value.
  * Use function patterns to define different versions of the function based on the string's length.
    * One pattern should match strings with exactly two characters, and destructure the string to assign variables to its first and second characters.
    * Any other string should return the `_INVALID_MOVE_` constant you defined in Assignment 1.
  * In the case of a two-character string, you'll need to process each character into an integer value using functions you've already defined (`convertRowIndex` and `readDigit`).
  * Test the function in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A2> :r

    TTT.A2> stringToMove "B1"
    (1,1)
    TTT.A2> stringToMove "B11"
    (-1,-1)
    TTT.A2> stringToMove "a3"
    (0,3)
    ```
  * **Note:** it's okay for this function to produce moves that may ultimately be invalid - they may be outside the range of the board's dimensions or be already occupied by a player. We will perform additional validation in a later assignment.

* **Q#10**:
  * Write a function `replaceSquareInRow` that takes an `Player` value, an `Int` value specifying a column index, and a `Row` value. It will return a new row with the square at the specified column replaced with the active player's tick mark.
  * The general approach is to split the original row in two, build a new second piece, and rejoin the pieces into a new row.
  * Use `splitAt` to split the row into two lists at the desired index. Test the behavior of this function thoroughly in your REPL session to make sure you understand the output it produces.
  * This problem requires some intermediate processing that makes having an additional local scope useful. Create one using either of the two methods you learned in the lesson. Inside the local scope:
    * Destructure the result of `splitAt` to get the two list values.
    * Use conditional logic to ensure the new piece is constructed correctly under various edge cases:
      * A column index exceeding the row's size or a negative column index should return the original row value, unchanged.
      * The `null` function may be helpful to check for edge cases
      * You'll need to remove the original square at the specified column index. Think which built-in function can help with this.
  * Join the new row components in the original scope
  * Write two partially applied functions, `rsX` and `rsO`, applying the respective `Player` values.
  * Test the function in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A2> :r

    TTT.A2> e = head _EMPTY_BOARD_
    TTT.A2> t = last _TIED_BOARD_
    TTT.A2> rsX 0 e
    [X,E,E]
    TTT.A2> rsO 1 t
    [O,O,O]
    TTT.A2> rsX 3 e
    [E,E,E]
    TTT.A2> rsO (-1) t
    [O,X,O]
    TTT.A2> rsX 0 []
    []
    ```