# 🥷 **Assignment 3-1**

>Source file: `src/TTT/A3.hs`

* **Q#01**:
  * Write a function `showInts` that takes a list of `Int` values and returns a list of strings.
  * Use destructuring, function patterns and recursion to construct the new list, recursively converting each `Int` to a string value with the appropriate built-in function.
  * Test `showInts` in a GHCi REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A3

    TTT.A3> showInts [1,2,3]
    ["1","2","3"]
    showInts []
    []
    ```
  * Now declare a constant `_HEADER_` string with the following format:
    * Prepend a space character (`' '`) at the beginning of the string to add some padding.
    * Use the `_RANGE_` constant and `showInts` to produce a list of number strings.
    * Apply `formatLine` to this value to produce a single formatted string with intercalated separators.
  * Test `_HEADER_` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> _HEADER_
    " _|_0_|_1_|_2_|_"
    ```

* **Q#02**:
  * Write a function `showSquares` that takes a list of `Square` values and produces a list of strings.
  * The function should recursively apply `showSquare` to the input values to produce the new list.
  * Test `showSquares` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> showSquares [X,O,X]
    ["X","O","X"]
    TTT.A3> showSquares []
    []
    ```

* **Q#03**:
  * Write a function `formatRows` that takes a list of `Row` values and produces a list of formatted strings by recursively applying  `showSquares` and `formatLine` to each row.
  * Test `formatRows` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> formatRows _EMPTY_BOARD_
    ["_|___|___|___|_","_|___|___|___|_","_|___|___|___|_"]
    TTT.A3> formatRows _TIED_BOARD_
    ["_|_X_|_O_|_O_|_","_|_O_|_X_|_X_|_","_|_O_|_X_|_O_|_"]
    ```
* **Q#04**:
  * Write a function `isColEmpty` that takes a `Row` and an `Int` value corresponding to a column index and returns a boolean value indicating whether the corresponding square is empty.
  * You will need to define three function patterns: two base patterns and one recursive pattern.
  * What should the function return if it receives an empty row?
  * How can you check if the square at index `0` is empty?
  * Your recursive pattern should call `isColEmpty` in a way that progresses toward these exit conditions. How should its arguments be modified to ensure the function always terminates?
  * Test `isColEmpty` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> e = head _EMPTY_BOARD_
    TTT.A3> isColEmpty e 2
    True
    TTT.A3> isColEmpty (last _TIED_BOARD_) 1
    False
    TTT.A3> isColEmpty [] 0
    False
    TTT.A3> isColEmpty e 3
    False
    ```
* **Q#05**:
  * Write two functions, `dropFirstCol` and `dropLastCol`. Both functions take a `Board` value and return a new `Board` with one column removed.
  * To solve this problem, first consider how you can remove the first or last square of a single row using built-in functions.
  * Apply this logic recursively to perform the same operation on every row of the input board.
  * Test both functions in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> t = _TIED_BOARD_
    TTT.A3> dropFirstCol t
    [[O,O],[X,X],[X,O]]
    TTT.A3> dropLastCol t
    [[X,O],[O,X],[O,X]]
    ```
* **Q#06**:
  * Write two functions, `getDiag1` and `getDiag2`. Both will take a `Board` value and return a `Line` value corresponding to one of the diagonal lines on the board.
  * `getDiag1` should return the diagonal line spanning from the top left corner of the board to the bottom right corner. The recursive pattern should behave as follows:
    *  Get the first square of the current row
    * Join it to the result of applying `getDiag1` recursively on the remaining rows after dropping the first column
  * `getDiag2` should return the diagonal spanning from the top right corner to the bottom left. Its recursive pattern will be similar to `getDiag1`'s, but it should take the last square and drop the last column.
  * Test both functions in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> getDiag1 _TIED_BOARD_
    [X,X,O]
    TTT.A3> getDiag2 _TIED_BOARD_
    [O,X,O]
    ```
  * Write a function `getAllLines` that takes a `Board` value and produces a list of `Line` values.
    * Create a nested list containing three sub-lists:
      1. All of the board's horizontal lines (this is just the input board itself)
      2. All of the board's vertical lines (this can be produced easily using the built-in [transpose](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-4.17.0.0/docs/Data-List.html#v:transpose) function)
      3. The board's diagonal lines (create a two-element list containing the results of applying `getDiag1` and `getDiag2`)
    * Flatten the nested list to produce the final list of `Line` values.
  * Test `getAllLines` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> getAllLines _TIED_BOARD_
    [[X,O,O],[O,X,X],[O,X,O],[X,O,O],[O,X,X],[O,X,O],[X,X,O],[O,X,O]]