# 🥷 **Assignment 3-2**

>Source file: `src/TTT/A3.hs`

* **Q#07**:
  * Write a function `putSquare` that will replace a square at the coordinates of a provided move with a given player's square.
  * The function's signature has been provided below to ensure compatibility between your implementation and future functions. Be sure to use this exact signature in your solution:
      ```haskell
      putSquare :: Player -> Board -> Move -> Board
      ```
  * You'll need to destructure both the `Board` and `Move` values to implement this function.
  * The function should build a new board as it recurses over the rows of the input board, according to the following logic:
    * If the input board is an empty list, the function should return an empty list.
    * If the current "head" row matches the row index of the input move, use `replaceSquareInRow` to produce a transformed row, then join it with the remaining rows of the original board (no further recursion is needed).
      * Think how you can determine whether the current row being processed matches the input move's row index. Review similar examples from the lesson slides as needed.
    * Otherwise, join the value of the "head" row to the result of calling `putSquare` recursively on the "tail" rows.
      * Think carefully about the new arguments you should supply to `putSquare` in the recursive call: both the `Board` and `Move` values should change each time the function is called.
  * Test `putSquare` in a GHCi REPL session:
      ```shell
      $ cabal repl

      Main> :l TTT.A3

      TTT.A3> putSquare X _EMPTY_BOARD_ (1,1)
      [[E,E,E],[E,X,E],[E,E,E]]
      TTT.A3> putSquare X [] (0,0)
      []
      ```

* **Q#08**:
  * Write a function `prependRowIndices` that takes a list of strings and returns a new list of strings. This function will be used to join row strings with their corresponding index letters so the indexed rows can be displayed properly in the terminal.
  * Use the worker-wrapper idiom to pre-process the input list with `indexRowStrings` and pass the result to a recursive "worker" function to perform the remaining processing.
  * The worker function should receive a list of `(Char, String)` pairs, and use recursion to process each pair as follows:
    * Destructure the pairs to access the `Char` and `String` elements
    * Prepend the index character to the string to produce a new string.
  * Test `prependRowIndices` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> prependRowIndices [". Learn Haskell", ". Wait for more industry adoption", ". Profit?"]
    ["A. Learn Haskell", "B. Wait for more industry adoption", "C. Profit?"]
    ```

* **Q#09**:
  * Write a function `isWinningLine` that takes a `Player` and a `Line` and returns a boolean value indicating whether every square in the line belongs to the given player.
  * If the `Line` argument is an empty list, the function should return `False`.
  * Use the worker-wrapper idiom to define a recursive "worker" function with an accumulator argument. The accumulator should be a `Bool` value that begins as `False` and switches to `True` if at least one square in the line matches the input player (this will ensure an empty list argument is handled correctly).
  * If a non-matching square is found, the function should terminate immediately with a value of `False`.
  * `isWinningLine` should be a "wrapper" function that simply calls the worker with the appropriate initial arguments.
  * **Note:** the `Player` value is in scope of the worker function and doesn't change, so it does not need to be supplied to the worker as an argument.
  * Test `isWinningLine` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> isWinningLine X [X,X,X]
    True
    TTT.A3> isWinningLine X [O,O,O]
    False
    TTT.A3> isWinningLine O [O,O,X]
    False
    TTT.A3> isWinningLine X []
    False
    ```

* **Q#10**:
  * Write a function `isValidMove` that takes a `Board` and a `Move` value and returns a boolean value indicating whether the move can be played.
  * Use the worker-wrapper idiom to validate whether the move falls within the board's boundaries before processing any further (using `isMoveInBounds`).
  * If the move is in bounds, use a recursive worker function to determine whether the square at the move's coordinates is empty.
  * You'll need to destructure both the `Board` and `Move` values to implement this function.
  * How can you determine whether the current row of the board being processed by the worker matches the move's row index?
  * You already implemented `isColEmpty` to check if a row has an empty square at a given column index. Be sure to use this in your worker instead of recreating it from scratch.
  * Test `isValidMove` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A3> :r

    TTT.A3> e = _EMPTY_BOARD_
    TTT.A3> isValidMove e (0,0)
    True
    TTT.A3> isValidMove e (3,3)
    False
    TTT.A3> isValidMove [] (0,0)
    False
    TTT.A3> isValidMove _TIED_BOARD_ (1,1)
    False
    ```