# 🥷 **Assignment 6-1: Records & Instances**

>Source file: `src/HM/A6.hs`

* **Q#08**:
  * Define a record type ***Game*** to hold our various pieces of game "state".
  * The record should contain fields for the following, defined using selector syntax with appropriate types:
    1. The secret word
    2. The current guess string
    3. A list of moves (characters) that have been guessed so far
    4. The number of chances remaining

* **Q#09**:
  * Write a function `repeatedMove` that checks whether a character has been guessed already.
  * This function should take a ***Move*** and a ***Game*** value and return a ***Bool***.
  * Use the selector function you defined in **Q#08** to retrieve the necessary field value from the ***Game*** argument.

* **Q#10**:
  * Write a function `makeGame` that produces an initial ***Game*** record value.
  * It should receive a ***Secret*** value as its only argument.
  * Construct the ***Game*** value using the constructor and selectors you defined in **Q#07**.
  * The value for the ***Secret*** field should be the input ***Secret***, converted to all capital letters. Use `map` and the appropriate built-in function.
  * The value for the ***Guess*** field should be a string of underscore (`_`) characters equal in length to the ***Secret*** value.
    * We could get the `length` of the ***Secret*** value and use `replicate` for this, but there's a more direct way that involves the useful `const` function. Look this function up on [hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) to see how it works.
  * The moves field should begin as an empty list.
  * The initial value for the chances field should be the `_CHANCES_` constant we've provided to you.

* **Q#11**:
  * Write a function `updateGame` that takes ***Move*** and ***Game*** arguments and returns a new ***Game*** value.
  * Updating the game "state" involves 3 things:
    1. Replacing the guess field with an updated ***Guess*** value (use the `revealLetters` function you defined in the previous assignment)
    2. Add the ***Move*** character to the moves field. Remember there are two ways to add an element to a list: the order of guessed characters doesn't matter, so choose the most efficient way.
    3. The chances value should be replaced with the result of the `updateChances` function you defined in the previous assignment (note that the value will be the same if the move character is part of the secret word - it's okay to replace the field value anyway, so don't bother adding additional logic to check for this).
  * Use the selector functions you defined for the ***Game*** type to retrieve field values as needed.
  * You don't need to construct an entirely new ***Game*** value: use the ***Game*** input and the "setter" technique shown in the slides to only update the fields that need to change.
  * It may be beneficial to use a `where` clause and define some temporary variables to store the results of your helper functions.

* **Q#12**:
  * Define a custom ***Show*** instance for the ***Game*** type.
  * We can't use `deriving` here, as we need to hide the secret word, and also provide custom "pretty-printed" formatting. We need to define an instance manually, which means implementing the `show` function for our custom type.
  * We've written the `showGameHelper` function to help you, since the formatting is quite tricky. Examine this function carefully and make sure you understand how each piece works ([hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) the `unlines` and `intersperse` functions if needed).
  * You can use selectors to retrieve the appropriate field arguments to `showGameHelper`, but it is more convenient to destructure the ***Game*** value in the assignment portion of `show`.

* **Q#13**:
  * Define a custom ***Show*** instance for the ***GameException*** variant you defined in the previous assignment.
  * Use function patterns to match on each of the ***GameException*** constructors and provide an appropriate string describing the exception.
  * You can use `concat` with the values from the following `where` clause for the `InvalidLength` pattern, which defines string values for the lower and upper bounds of a valid word length:
    ```haskell
    where
      lb = show $ fst _LENGTH_
      ub = show $ snd _LENGTH_
    ```