# 🥷 **Assignment 6-2: Exception Contexts**

>Source file: `src/HM/A6.hs`

* **Q#14**:
  * Write a utility function `toMaybe`, which takes a ***Bool*** value and a value of any type (`a`), and returns a ***Maybe* a** value.
  * If the boolean argument is false, return the appropriate constructor for a null value.
  * Otherwise use the appropriate constructor for a non-null value containing the value of type `a`.

* **Q#15**:
  * Write a higher-order function called `validateSecret`, which receives a predicate function (:: ***Secret*** -> ***Bool***), a ***GameException*** and a ***Secret*** value. The function should apply the predicate to the ***Secret*** and return one of two values in the ***Either*** context:
    1. If the secret passes the predicate, apply the appropriate constructor to it and return it.
    2. Otherwise, apply the appropriate constructor to the exception parameter and return it.
  * What should the signature for this function be? Remember that ***Either*** is a parametric type that takes two types as parameters: the first type parameter is the "unhappy" type, the second is the "happy" type.

* **Q#16**:
  * Write 3 additional functions: `hasValidChars`, `isValidLength` and `isInDict`.
  * Each function should partially-apply `validateSecret` to the first 2 of its 3 expected inputs: a predicate function (:: ***Secret*** -> ***Bool***) and a ***GameException*** value.
  * The predicate for `hasValidChars` should check if all characters in the ***Secret*** value are letters. Use the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor for the other argument.
  * `isValidLength` can use a function you already defined in a previous assignment for its predicate. Use the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor for the other argument.
  * `isInDict` should have an additional ***Dictionary*** value as a parameter (positioned before the ***Secret*** parameter). In this function, the predicate argument for `validateSecret` should be a lambda expression that converts each character in the ***Secret*** value to lowercase, then checks whether the lowercased string is an element of the ***Dictionary*** value. Use the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor for the other argument.
  * Write correct signatures for all 3 functions above their definitions (refer to the signature of `validateSecret` for guidance and use what you know about partial application).

* **Q#17**:
  * We now need to define two composite validator functions, which will compose different combinations of `hasValidChars`, `isValidLength`, and `isInDict`.
  * Both of these validators will return either a ***GameException*** or a ***Secret*** value.
  * `validateNoDict` should have a single ***Secret*** parameter, and apply `hasValidChars`, followed by `isValidLength`.
  * `validateWithDict` will extend `validateNoDict` by also applying `isInDict`. It should have a ***Dictionary*** parameter and a ***Secret*** parameter. Apply the `validateNoDict` function you just wrote, followed by `isInDict`.
  * In both functions, you'll need to use `case` expressions to pattern-match on the results of the first validation, and define patterns for both of its possible outcomes.
  * The "happy" case should extract the valid ***Secret*** value from the ***Either*** context, and apply the next validator to it.
  * The "unhappy" case should propagate (pass on) the error value produced by the first validator.

* **Q#18**:
  * Write a function `processTurn`, which takes a ***Move*** and a ***Game*** value and returns either a ***GameException*** value or an updated ***Game*** value.
  * Use guards to define results for the following 3 exception scenarios. Use functions you've defined previously where possible (like `invalidMove` and `repeatedMove`), and return the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor in the ***Either*** context:
    1. The move character is invalid
    2. The move character has been chosen already
    3. Applying the move to the current game will result in the player running out of chances (*Note:* use the `updateGame` function to produce a new ***Game*** value in a `where` clause, and check the number of chances remaining on this value, *not* the original ***Game*** value received as input to `processTurn`!)
  * Define a catch-all guard that returns the new ***Game*** value computed in the `where` clause for case 3 above.