# 🥷 **Assignment 1-1**

>Source file: `src/TTT/A1.hs`

* **Q#01**:
  * Declare a constant `_SIZE_` with a value of `3`.
  * Write the signature for `_SIZE_` above its declaration.
  * Test `_SIZE_` in a GHCi REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A1
    TTT.A1> _SIZE_
    3
    TTT.A1> :t _SIZE_
    _SIZE_ :: Int
    TTT.A1> s = _SIZE_
    TTT.A1> s + 1
    4
    TTT.A1> s - 1
    2
    TTT.A1> s
    3
    ```
* **Q#02**:
  * Declare a constant `_DISPLAY_LOGO_` with a truthful boolean value.
  * Write the signature for `_DISPLAY_LOGO_`.
  * Test `_DISPLAY_LOGO` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A1> :r

    TTT.A1> d = _DISPLAY_LOGO_
    TTT.A1> d
    True
    TTT.A1> not d
    False
    TTT.A1> d && not d
    False
    TTT.A1> d || not d
    True
    ```

* **Q#03**: \
  Complete the function `convertRowIndex`:
  * Define a single parameter representing a row index value, which will be a character. The function body can remain `undefined` for now, but it will ultimately return an `Int` value.
  * Write the signature for `convertRowIndex` above its declaration.
  * The body will produce an `Int` value using three built-in functions: `toUpper`, `fromEnum` and `(-)` (subtraction). The basic logic is as follows:
    1. Convert the index character to uppercase (`toUpper`)
    2. Convert the result of `toUpper` to its unicode value (`fromEnum`)
    3. Offset the result of `fromEnum` by subtracting `65` (`-`)
    >You'll need parentheses to compose the three steps
  * Test `convertRowIndex` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A1> :r

    TTT.A1> f = convertRowIndex
    TTT.A1> f 'A'
    0
    TTT.A1> f 'a'
    0
    TTT.A1> f 'b'
    1
    TTT.A1> f 'B' - 1
    0
    ```
* **Q#04**:
  * A move in our game will consist of two values, representing a row and column index. Which is the most appropriate collection type to represent this data?
  * Define a dummy constant `_INVALID_MOVE_` to represent an invalid move. Its row and column index values should both be `-1`.
  * **Note:** this won't be the only invalid move - just a default value we'll use in certain places to represent one
  * Test `_INVALID_MOVE_` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A1> :r

    TTT.A1> m = _INVALID_MOVE_
    TTT.A1> fst m
    -1
    TTT.A1> snd m
    -1
    ```

* **Q#05**:
  * We'll use three separator characters, `_|_`, in part of our game that prints the board.
  * Define a constant `_SEP_` to represent these characters. Which is the most appropriate collection type to represent this data?
  * Test `_SEP_` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    TTT.A1> :r

    TTT.A1> head _SEP_
    '_'
    TTT.A1> last _SEP_
    '_'
    TTT.A1> _SEP_ !! 1
    '|'
    ```