# 🥷 **Assignment 1-2**

>Source file: `src/TTT/A1.hs`

* **Q#06**:
  * Define a variant type called `Square` with three constructors corresponding to the possible values a square can contain: X, O, or neither (empty).
  * Derive typeclass instances for `Square` that will allow its values to be printed to the screen and compared for equality.
  * Test `Square` in a GHCi REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l A1

    A1> X
    X
    A1> :t X
    X :: Square
    A1> O
    O
    A1> :t O
    O :: Square
    A1> X == O
    False
    ```

* **Q#07**:
  * Define a variant type called `GameState` with four constructors corresponding to the possible states the game can be in:
    1. X won the game
    2. O won the game
    3. The game is a tie
    4. The game is in progress
  * Derive typeclass instances for `GameState` that will allow its values to be printed to the screen and compared for equality.
  * Test `GameState` in your REPL session using the same approach as in `Q#06`.

* **Q#08**:
  * Define the following type synonyms:
    |Synonym | Existing Type/Synonym|
    --- | ---|
    |Player | Square|
    |Row | \[Square]|
    |Line | \[Square]|
    |Board | \[Row]|
    |Move | (Int, Int)|

* **Q#09**:
  * Declare a function `getFirstPlayer`, which will be used later as part of a coin-flip action to determine which player goes first.
  * `getFirstPlayer` should receive a boolean value as an argument and return a `Player` value. Define its signature and input parameter accordingly.
  * In the function body, use an `if`/`then`/`else` expression to return an `X` or `O` value based on whether the input boolean is true or false, respectively.
  * Declare a second function `getFirstPlayer_` and reproduce the original function using guards instead of `if`/`then`/`else`.
  * Test both functions in your REPL session.
      ```shell
    A1> :r

    A1> getFirstPlayer True
    X
    A1> getFirstPlayer False
    O
    A1> getFirstPlayer_ True
    X
    A1> getFirstPlayer_ False
    O
    ```


* **Q#10**:
  * Declare a function `showGameState` that receives a `GameState` value and returns a string message describing the current game state.
  * Use a `case` expression to define the conditional logic.
  * Test `showGameState` in your REPL session.

* **Q#11**:
  * Declare a function `switchPlayer` that receives an `Player` value and returns a new `Player` value.
  * Use function patterns to define multiple implementations of `switchPlayer` that match on the three possible `Player` values:
    1. Player X should switch to Player O
    2. Player O should switch to Player X
    3. An empty active player value should return the same empty value.
  * Test `switchPlayer` in your REPL session.

* **Q#12**:
  * Declare a function `showSquare` that receives a `Square` value and returns a string representation of it for displaying within the game board.
  * A square containing `X` should return `"X"`, `O` should return `"O"`, and an empty square should return `"_"`.
  * Use a technique of your choice to implement the conditional logic.
  * Test `showSquare` in your REPL session.