# 🥷 **Haskell Dojo Assignment 4: Higher-Order Functions**

>Source file: `src/TTT/A4.hs`

### **Q#01-Q#04**:
  * Refactor your solutions for the following functions from `A3` to use `map` instead of explicit recursion:
    1. `_HEADER_`
    2. `showSquares`
    3. `dropFirstCol`
    4. `dropLastCol`
  * Test the new functions in a GHCi REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A4

    TTT.A4> _HEADER_
    " _|_0_|_1_|_2_|_"
    TTT.A4> showSquares [X,O,X]
    ["X","O","X"]
    TTT.A4> showSquares []
    []
    TTT.A4> t = _TIED_BOARD_
    TTT.A4> dropFirstCol t
    [[O,O],[X,X],[X,O]]
    TTT.A4> dropLastCol t
    [[X,O],[O,X],[O,X]]
    ```

### **Q#05**:
  * Refactor your solution to `formatRows` from `A3` to use `map`.
  * Use a lambda expression for the "mapper" function.
  * Test `formatRows` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A4

    TTT.A4> formatRows _EMPTY_BOARD_
    ["_|___|___|___|_","_|___|___|___|_","_|___|___|___|_"]
    TTT.A4> formatRows _TIED_BOARD_
    ["_|_X_|_O_|_O_|_","_|_O_|_X_|_X_|_","_|_O_|_X_|_O_|_"]
    ```

### **Q#06**:
  * Write a new version of `isWinningLine` from `A3` (called `isWinningLine_`), which uses `filter` instead of explicit recursion.
  * The predicate argument to `filter` should be an operator section, and the filtering operation should return an empty list if the input line is a winning line for the player. You can use the built-in `null` function to check the emptiness of the filtered result.
  * Remember that an empty line should not be considered a winning line. You'll need to include additional logic to account for this edge case.
  * Test `isWinningLine_` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A4

    TTT.A4> isWinningLine_ X [X,X,X]
    True
    TTT.A4> isWinningLine_ X [O,O,O]
    False
    TTT.A4> isWinningLine_ O [O,O,X]
    False
    TTT.A4> isWinningLine_ X []
    False
    ```

### **Q#07**:
  * Rewrite `isWinningLine` one more time, using `foldr` instead of `filter`.
  * The reducer function supplied to `foldr` should be a lambda expression that:
    * Checks the truthfulness of the "accumulator" argument
    * Checks whether the current square matches the player
  * Think carefully about which initial value must be provided to `foldr`.
  * Remember that an empty line should not be considered a winning line. You'll need to include additional logic to account for this edge case.
  * Test `isWinningLine_` in a GHCi REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A4

    TTT.A4> isWinningLine X [X,X,X]
    True
    TTT.A4> isWinningLine X [O,O,O]
    False
    TTT.A4> isWinningLine O [O,O,X]
    False
    TTT.A4> isWinningLine X []
    False
    ```

### **Q#08**:
  * Write a function `hasWon` that takes a `Player` and a `Board` value as inputs and returns a boolean value indicating whether the player has a winning line anywhere in the board.
  * You'll need to apply `getAllLines` and then use `foldr` with a lambda expression.
  * The reducer should check for the truthfulness of the "accumulator" value (i.e. whether a winning line has already been found) *or* whether the current line is a winning line.
  * Think carefully about which initial value must be provided to `foldr`.
  * Define some sample boards to test your function. You can copy the code below:
    ```haskell
    _X_WIN_ = [ [X, O, O]
              , [O, X, O]
              , [O, O, X]
              ]

    _O_WIN_ = [ [O, X, O]
              , [X, X, O]
              , [X, O, O]
              ]
    ```
  * Test `hasWon` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A4

    TTT.A4> t = _TIED_BOARD_
    TTT.A4> x = _X_WIN_
    TTT.A4> o = _O_WIN_
    TTT.A4> hasWon X t
    False
    TTT.A4> hasWon O t
    False
    TTT.A4> hasWon X x
    True
    TTT.A4> hasWon O x
    False
    TTT.A4> hasWon O o
    True
    TTT.A4> hasWon X o
    False
    TTT.A4> hasWon X []
    False
    ```

### **Q#09**:
  * The two functions in this question do not involve higher-order functions: they have simpler solutions using previous concepts you've learned, but we couldn't define them before implementing `hasWon`.
  * Write a function `getGameState` that takes a `Board` value and returns a `GameState` value. Review the constructors you defined for `GameState` in `A1` as needed.
    * The function should use conditional logic to check if either player has won the game, whether the game is tied, or none of the above, returning the appropriate `GameState` value in each case.
    * Test `getGameState` in your REPL session using `_X_WIN_`, `_O_WIN_`, `_TIED_BOARD_`, and `_EMPTY_BOARD_`.
  * Write another function `playMove`, which will apply a player move and return both the resulting `GameState` and an updated board.
    * The function's signature has been provided below to ensure compatibility between your implementation and future functions. Be sure to use this exact signature in your solution:
      ```haskell
      playMove :: Player -> Board -> Move -> (GameState, Board)
      ```
    * In a local scope, apply `putSquare` on the input board and store the updated board it produces as an intermediate variable for reuse elsewhere. Be sure to only use this new board variable from this point forward, and not the original board (which has become "stale"), or your program will have unexpected behavior.
    * We'll spare you the tedium of testing this function: if you followed the instructions and your implementations of `putSquare` and `getGameState` are correct, the function should work as expected.

### **Q#10**:
  * Refactor `prependRowIndices` from `A3` using `zipWith`.
  * You'll no longer need `indexRowStrings` from `A2` in this function, but review this function as needed to reproduce the relevant portion of its behavior.
  * Which function should be supplied as an argument to `zipWith` to reproduce the same behavior as the original version?
  * Test `prependRowIndices` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A4

    TTT.A4> prependRowIndices [". Learn Haskell", ". Wait for more industry adoption", ". Profit?"]
    ["A. Learn Haskell", "B. Wait for more industry adoption", "C. Profit?"]
    ```

### **Q#11**:
  * Write a function `formatBoard` that takes a `Board` value and returns a string representation of the entire board, ready to be printed to the terminal.
  * Use proper composition style to write this function in a single line using the (`$`) and (`.`) operators.
  * The logic of this function should be as follows:
    1. Apply `formatRows` to the board
    2. Apply `prependRowIndices` to add the index letters to the formatted rows.
    3. Prepend the `_HEADER_` constant to the list of indexed row strings.
      * Use an operator section for this step
    4. Merge all of the strings into a single string, with line breaks inserted in the appropriate locations.
      * There is a useful built-in function to do this final step: use [Hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) to search for the signature this function should have, and see if you can find the correct one.
  * Test `formatBoard` in your REPL session:
    ```shell
    $ cabal repl

    Main> :l TTT.A4

    TTT.A4> putStrLn $ formatBoard _TIED_BOARD_
     _|_0_|_1_|_2_|_
    A_|_X_|_O_|_O_|_
    B_|_O_|_X_|_X_|_
    C_|_O_|_X_|_O_|_
    TTT.A4> putStrLn $ formatBoard _EMPTY_BOARD_
     _|_0_|_1_|_2_|_
    A_|___|___|___|_
    B_|___|___|___|_
    C_|___|___|___|_
    ```