# 🥷 **Haskell Dojo Assignment 6: Records, Instances & Exceptions**

>Source file: `src/HM/A6.hs`

## **Part I: Warm-Up**
The following 7 questions can be completed using only concepts and techniques from Part I of the course, and are designed to help you review and practice what you've learned so far.

The assignments in Part II do not provide sample code for testing your solutions in GHCi. You will need to perform your own tests to ensure the correctness of your code, using the techniques you practiced in Part I.

### **Q#01**:
  * Declare the following type synonyms:
    |Synonym | Existing Type/Synonym|
    --- | ---|
    |*Chances* | *Int*|
    |*Guess* | *String*|
    |*Move* | *Char*|
    |*Secret* | *String*|
    |*Dictionary* | \[*String*]|

### **Q#02**:
  * Declare a custom variant type called ***GameException*** with the following constructors:
    * `InvalidChars`
    * `InvalidLength`
    * `NotInDict`
    * `InvalidMove`
    * `RepeatMove`
    * `GameOver`

### **Q#03**:
  * Write a function `lengthInRange` that takes a ***Secret*** value and returns whether its length falls within the valid range specified by the provided `_LENGTH_` constant.
  * You'll need to extract the first and second elements of the `_LENGTH_` pair, which can be done in one of two ways:
    1. Use the built-in accessor functions (search by type signatures on [hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) if you don't remember them).
    2. Destructure the pair in a `let`/`in` expression or `where` clause to retrieve the elements.

### **Q#04**:
  * Write a function `invalidMove` that returns whether a ***Move*** value is a letter.
  * *Hint:* search [hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) for the appropriate signature to identify the correct built-in function to use

### **Q#05**:
  * Write a function `revealLetters` that takes ***Move***, ***Secret***, and ***Guess*** values (in this order) and returns a new ***Guess*** value.
  * The ***Guess*** value will be a piece of game "state" that begins as a string of underscore (`_`) characters with the same length as the ***Secret*** value.
  * When the player guesses a character that is part of the ***Secret***, all instances of that character in the ***Guess*** value will be changed from underscores to that character.
  * `revealLetters` should check the corresponding characters in the ***Secret*** and the ***Guess*** strings one by one, building a new string as it goes.
  * We can achieve this by applying `zipWith` with an appropriate lambda expression to both strings.

### **Q#06**:
  * Write a function `updateChances` that takes ***Move***, ***Secret***, and ***Chances*** values (in that order) and returns a new ***Chances*** value.
  * If the ***Move*** argument is not a character in the ***Secret*** string, the new ***Chances*** value should subtract 1 from the previous value; otherwise, the original value should be returned unchanged.
  * In other words, the player only loses a chance when their ***Move*** character doesn't occur in the ***Secret*** word.

### **Q#07**:
  * Write an action `setSecret` that retrieves a ***Secret*** value from user input and hides the input as they type.
  * Write the correct signature above the action definition.
  * Use `do` notation.
  * Print a prompt asking the user to enter a secret word using `putStr` (not `putStrLn` this time!)
    * Example string to print: `"Enter a secret word:\t"` (note the tab character added for spacing)
  * Use the provided `showInput` action with an appropriate boolean argument to hide the user input.
  * Use the appropriate action to retrieve an input string from the user.
  * Unhide the user input using `showInput` again.
  * Print a blank line by calling the provided `_SPACE_` action.
  * Return the user-provided string

***
## **Part II:**

### **Q#08**:
  * Define a record type ***Game*** to hold our various pieces of game "state".
  * The record should contain fields for the following, defined using selector syntax with appropriate types:
    1. The secret word
    2. The current guess string
    3. A list of moves (characters) that have been guessed so far
    4. The number of chances remaining

### **Q#09**:
  * Write a function `repeatedMove` that checks whether a character has been guessed already.
  * This function should take a ***Move*** and a ***Game*** value and return a ***Bool***.
  * Use the selector function you defined in **Q#08** to retrieve the necessary field value from the ***Game*** argument.

### **Q#10**:
  * Write a function `makeGame` that produces an initial ***Game*** record value.
  * It should receive a ***Secret*** value as its only argument.
  * Construct the ***Game*** value using the constructor and selectors you defined in **Q#07**.
  * The value for the ***Secret*** field should be the input ***Secret***, converted to all capital letters. Use `map` and the appropriate built-in function.
  * The value for the ***Guess*** field should be a string of underscore (`_`) characters equal in length to the ***Secret*** value.
    * We could get the `length` of the ***Secret*** value and use `replicate` for this, but there's a more direct way that involves the useful `const` function. Look this function up on [hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) to see how it works.
  * The moves field should begin as an empty list.
  * The initial value for the chances field should be the `_CHANCES_` constant we've provided to you.

### **Q#11**:
  * Write a function `updateGame` that takes ***Move*** and ***Game*** arguments and returns a new ***Game*** value.
  * Updating the game "state" involves 3 things:
    1. Replacing the guess field with an updated ***Guess*** value (use the `revealLetters` function you defined in the previous assignment)
    2. Add the ***Move*** character to the moves field. Remember there are two ways to add an element to a list: the order of guessed characters doesn't matter, so choose the most efficient way.
    3. The chances value should be replaced with the result of the `updateChances` function you defined in the previous assignment (note that the value will be the same if the move character is part of the secret word - it's okay to replace the field value anyway, so don't bother adding additional logic to check for this).
  * Use the selector functions you defined for the ***Game*** type to retrieve field values as needed.
  * You don't need to construct an entirely new ***Game*** value: use the ***Game*** input and the "setter" technique shown in the slides to only update the fields that need to change.
  * It may be beneficial to use a `where` clause and define some temporary variables to store the results of your helper functions.

### **Q#12**:
  * Define a custom ***Show*** instance for the ***Game*** type.
  * We can't use `deriving` here, as we need to hide the secret word, and also provide custom "pretty-printed" formatting. We need to define an instance manually, which means implementing the `show` function for our custom type.
  * We've written the `showGameHelper` function to help you, since the formatting is quite tricky. Examine this function carefully and make sure you understand how each piece works ([hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) the `unlines` and `intersperse` functions if needed).
  * You can use selectors to retrieve the appropriate field arguments to `showGameHelper`, but it is more convenient to destructure the ***Game*** value in the assignment portion of `show`.

### **Q#13**:
  * Define a custom ***Show*** instance for the ***GameException*** variant you defined in the previous assignment.
  * Use function patterns to match on each of the ***GameException*** constructors and provide an appropriate string describing the exception.
  * You can use `concat` with the values from the following `where` clause for the `InvalidLength` pattern, which defines string values for the lower and upper bounds of a valid word length:
    ```haskell
    where
      lb = show $ fst _LENGTH_
      ub = show $ snd _LENGTH_
    ```

### **Q#14**:
  * Write a utility function `toMaybe`, which takes a ***Bool*** value and a value of any type (`a`), and returns a ***Maybe* a** value.
  * If the boolean argument is false, return the appropriate constructor for a null value.
  * Otherwise use the appropriate constructor for a non-null value containing the value of type `a`.

### **Q#15**:
  * Write a higher-order function called `validateSecret`, which receives a predicate function (:: ***Secret*** -> ***Bool***), a ***GameException*** and a ***Secret*** value. The function should apply the predicate to the ***Secret*** and return one of two values in the ***Either*** context:
    1. If the secret passes the predicate, apply the appropriate constructor to it and return it.
    2. Otherwise, apply the appropriate constructor to the exception parameter and return it.
  * What should the signature for this function be? Remember that ***Either*** is a parametric type that takes two types as parameters: the first type parameter is the "unhappy" type, the second is the "happy" type.

### **Q#16**:
  * Write 3 additional functions: `hasValidChars`, `isValidLength` and `isInDict`.
  * Each function should partially-apply `validateSecret` to the first 2 of its 3 expected inputs: a predicate function (:: ***Secret*** -> ***Bool***) and a ***GameException*** value.
  * The predicate for `hasValidChars` should check if all characters in the ***Secret*** value are letters. Use the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor for the other argument.
  * `isValidLength` can use a function you already defined in a previous assignment for its predicate. Use the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor for the other argument.
  * `isInDict` should have an additional ***Dictionary*** value as a parameter (positioned before the ***Secret*** parameter). In this function, the predicate argument for `validateSecret` should be a lambda expression that converts each character in the ***Secret*** value to lowercase, then checks whether the lowercased string is an element of the ***Dictionary*** value. Use the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor for the other argument.
  * Write correct signatures for all 3 functions above their definitions (refer to the signature of `validateSecret` for guidance and use what you know about partial application).

### **Q#17**:
  * We now need to define two composite validator functions, which will compose different combinations of `hasValidChars`, `isValidLength`, and `isInDict`.
  * Both of these validators will return either a ***GameException*** or a ***Secret*** value.
  * `validateNoDict` should have a single ***Secret*** parameter, and apply `hasValidChars`, followed by `isValidLength`.
  * `validateWithDict` will extend `validateNoDict` by also applying `isInDict`. It should have a ***Dictionary*** parameter and a ***Secret*** parameter. Apply the `validateNoDict` function you just wrote, followed by `isInDict`.
  * In both functions, you'll need to use `case` expressions to pattern-match on the results of the first validation, and define patterns for both of its possible outcomes.
  * The "happy" case should extract the valid ***Secret*** value from the ***Either*** context, and apply the next validator to it.
  * The "unhappy" case should propagate (pass on) the error value produced by the first validator.

### **Q#18**:
  * Write a function `processTurn`, which takes a ***Move*** and a ***Game*** value and returns either a ***GameException*** value or an updated ***Game*** value.
  * Use guards to define results for the following 3 exception scenarios. Use functions you've defined previously where possible (like `invalidMove` and `repeatedMove`), and return the appropriate ***GameException*** constructor in the ***Either*** context:
    1. The move character is invalid
    2. The move character has been chosen already
    3. Applying the move to the current game will result in the player running out of chances (*Note:* use the `updateGame` function to produce a new ***Game*** value in a `where` clause, and check the number of chances remaining on this value, *not* the original ***Game*** value received as input to `processTurn`!)
  * Define a catch-all guard that returns the new ***Game*** value computed in the `where` clause for case 3 above.