# 🥷 **Haskell Dojo Assignment 8: Functors & Monads**

>Source file: `src/HM/A8.hs`

### **Q#01**:
  * Write an ***IO*** action `getUpperChar` that gets an input character from the user and converts it to uppercase.
  * First identify the correct built-in ***IO*** action to use (Look it up on [hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) using the appropriate signature if needed).
  * Do not use (`>>=`) or `do` notation in your solution. Use what you know about the ***Functor*** typeclass to accomplish the task more simply than relying on the more powerful ***Monad*** tools.

### **Q#02**:
  * Fill in the `undefined` expressions in the definition of `_DICT_` (:: ***IO Dictionary***).
  * If `fileExists`, use `readFile` to read the contents of the file at the location specified by `_DICT_FILE`, and converts the input into a list of words.
  * Use [hoogle](https://hoogle.haskell.org) to find the appropriate built-in function to convert a ***String*** value to a **[*String*]** value if you're not already aware of it.
  * Again, do not use (`>>=`) or `do` notation in this part of your solution. Use what you know about the ***Functor*** typeclass to accomplish the task more simply than relying on the more powerful ***Monad*** tools.
  * If the file doesn't exist, return an empty ***Dictionary*** value (list) in the ***IO*** context. Do not use `return` to introduce the context: which new adapter that we learned about can be used instead?
  * Now define `isDictNonEmpty` using `fmap`/(`<$>`) to check whether _DICT_ contains an empty ***Dictionary*** value. *Hint:* you'll need to `fmap` the composition of two functions to achieve this: try using the compose operator (`.`) in your solution!

### **Q#03**:
  * Write a function `makeGameIfValid` that takes either a ***GameException*** or a ***Secret*** value and returns either a ***GameException*** or a ***Game*** value.
  * The function should apply the `makeGame` function to the value inside the ***Either*** context, without using (`>>=`) or `do` notation.

### **Q#04: CHALLENGE**:
  * Write an action `getDict` that returns a ***Maybe Dictionary*** value inside the ***IO*** context.
  * The action should be implemented as follows:
    1. Use `fmap`/(`<$>`) to apply the `toMaybe` function (from ***A7***) to  `isDictNonEmpty` value you defined in **Q#02**. This will produce an action of type ***IO*** **(a -> *Maybe* a)**.
    2. You now need to apply this contextualized function to the `_DICT_` constant (:: ***IO Dictionary***). Which adapter will allow us to apply a value of type ***IO* (*Dictionary* -> *Maybe Dictionary*)** to a value of type ***IO Dictionary***, producing a value of type ***IO* (*Maybe Dictionary*)**?

### **Q#05**:
  * Write refactored versions of the `validateNoDict` and `validateWithDict` functions we defined in **Assignment 7**, using (`>>=`) to compose the component validators (instead of manually case-matching/destructuring and propagating exceptions).

### **Q#06**:
  * Write an action `playGame` that takes a ***Game*** value and returns a unit value in the ***IO*** context.
  * This is the most complex piece of program logic, so read the following instructions carefully!
  * Using `do` notation, implement the following logic:
    1. Call the `promptGuess` action from the provided code.
    2. Use the `getUpperChar` action to get a move from the user and bind the result to a variable.
    3. Call `_SPACE_`.
    4. Apply `processTurn` and pattern-match on the result using a `case` expression. You'll need to write 3 different case patterns to handle the following possibilities:
      * **a.** **The game is over:** in this case, print the game-over message (you defined this in the ***Show*** instance for the ***GameException*** type), then print a message informing the player what the correct word was. *Hint:* remember which adapter we can use to sequence two monadic actions when we don't need the result of the first action.
      * **b.** **Any other exception occurred:** print the exception and call `playGame` recursively with the same ***Game*** value. We're creating a looped action that will repeat until the player enters a valid move or the game ends.
      * **c.** **An updated *Game* value was returned:** in this case, the player has entered a valid move, and the game's "state" has advanced. Print the new **Game** value, then check whether the ***Guess*** field is equal to the ***Secret*** field. If so, print a message saying that the game has been won. Otherwise, call `playGame` recursively, applying it to the updated **Game** value.
        * *Hint:* remember when using conditional expressions like `case` or `if`/`then`/`else` inside a `do` block, we need to create a nested `do` block if we want to continue writing code in `do` notation!

### **Q#07:**
  * Write an action `startGame`, which takes a validator function (:: ***Secret*** -> ***Either GameException Secret***) as input and returns a unit value in the **IO** context.
  * This action should do 2 things:
    1. Receive a secret word from the player using the `setSecret` action, and bind the result to a variable.
    2. Apply the validator function (argument) to the ***Secret*** value supplied by the player above (this produces a value of type ***Either GameException Secret***); then apply `makeGameIfValid` to this result, and with a `case` expression, match on the two possible values this returns:
      a. **An exception occurred:** the ***Secret*** value is invalid; print the exception, then call `startGame` recursively, applied to the same validator argument.
      b. **A *Game* value was returned:** print the ***Game*** value, then apply `playGame` to it to start the gameplay.

### **Q#08:**
  * The `runHM` action is essentially the `main` action for our Hangman application.
  * Replace the placeholder `putStrLn` action in `runApp` with an action that does the following, depending on whether you successfully solved **Q4**.
    * ***If you solved Q4:***
      1. Call the `getDict` action and bind its ***Maybe Dictionary*** result to a variable (i.e. `maybeDict`).
      2. Use a `case` expression to pattern-match on the result, defining patterns for the `Just` and `Nothing` possibilities.
        * If a **Dictionary** is found, partially-apply the `validateWithDict` validator to it, and pass the resulting function as an argument to `startGame`.
        * If no dictionary is found:
          * Print the following message: `"Missing dictionary! Continue without dictionary? [Y/N]"`.
          * Then call the `getUpperChar` action, binding the result to a variable.
          * If the result is `Y`, apply `startGame` to the `validateNoDict` validator. We can use `if`-`then`-`else` for this, but there is a monadic helper function that lets us more easily perform an action conditionally like this, and returns a unit value inside the context when the predicate is `False`. Review the slides for **Module 5** if you don't remember.
    * ***If you didn't solve Q4:***
      1. Bind `_DICT_` to a variable (i.e. `dict`)
      2. Use a `case` expression to pattern-match on the variable, defining patterns for a **non-empty dictionary (list)** and **empty dictionary (list)**.
        * If the dictionary is empty:
          * Print the following message: `"Missing dictionary! Continue without dictionary? [Y/N]"`.
          * Then call the `getUpperChar` action, binding the result to a variable.
          * If the result is `Y`, apply `startGame` to the `validateNoDict` validator. We can use `if`-`then`-`else` for this, but there is a monadic helper function that lets us more easily perform an action conditionally like this, and returns a unit value inside the context when the predicate is `False`. Review the slides for **Module 5** if you don't remember.
        * If the dictionary isn't empty, partially-apply the `validateWithDict` validator to it, and pass the resulting function as an argument to `startGame`.
  * Your Hangman game should now be fully functional! Try running `cabal run` in the terminal to play (if you're inside a GHCi session, exit using `:q` to return to the regular terminal).